---
layout: post
title: Wednesday, July 18, 2018
category: dailyblog
---
### Useful links
- https://groups.google.com/a/chromium.org/forum/#!topic/Blink-dev/wayZGnuBkrI
- https://w3c.github.io/payment-request
- https://github.com/w3c/payment-request/


### lldb show more of frame

set set stop-line-count-after 10
set set stop-line-count-before 10
### Responding to https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1461465#c23
#### On realizing the tests have a bug in them
In order to avoid calling `DataTransfer::GetData`,
I made some modifications to `Clipboard.cpp`, `DataTransfer.cpp`, `DataTransferItem.cpp`
in order to retrieve the data transfer item as a string. When I was doing a live demo using the following
``` js

```
I noticed that pasting text no longer worked. I was baffled because when I was running clipboard tests, it worked. I thought it was perhaps I have two different code paths for chrome and content processes. `TODO what did I do`.
I decided to debug individual tests so I uncommented all tests but one of them - `test_contentscript_clipboard_permission_readtext.js`. Then, I saw that it was failing. I thought it was failing because I am debugging the test, so I quit my debugging and run the test on its own. To my surprise there was an error saying that no asserts were run, and I should use `SimpleTest.waitForExplicitFinish` if I need it. Then, I investigated the individual test and realized that at one point I assume that the promise gets resolved by the time I signal that the test is done. I then thought I could use `await` inside of the content script, but that didn't work so then instead, in both branches of the promise, in case of success and in case of error, I would signal that I was done. This worked out and the test failed as expected.

####

### What I learned about web-standards
- difference between whatwg and w3c
- web payments
