---
layout: post
title: Bug 1419960 - Make the noopener window feature not affect whether other window features are enabled
excerpt: I’m trying to create tests for this bug https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1419960 and I am not sure how to test that executing `window.open(url, "_blank", "noopener")` opens a new tab.
category: dailyblog
---


# Monday July 9
### 9:17am
I’m trying to create tests for this bug https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1419960 and I am not sure how to test that executing `window.open(url, "_blank", "noopener")` opens a new tab. Another intern mentioned I could look in `browser*` test APIs.
- I skimmed through mochitest APIs and though couldn’t find anything helpful for checking the number of tabs or windows opened.
- I remembered that I once stumbled upon `browser*` tests and perhaps they could be helpful.
- There are a lot of tests in `/browser/base/content/test`. A lot of tests are located in `browser/base/content/test/general` but developers are no longer allowed to place their tests in that directory and instead are instructed to place their tests in other more specific directories.
- Any tests that have the name tab in them can be helpful to me because they can give me an example of how to deal with tabs. I will be checking `browser/base/content/test/general` and `browser/base/content/test/tabs` directories, paying close attention to any tests that have the word ‘tab’ in them.

I found the following things useful
* Check the number of tabs
    ``` js
      function checkTabs(aTabs) {
        is(gBrowser.tabs.length, aTabs, "number of open tabs should be " + aTabs);
      }
    ```
* How to navigate to a test html  page `browser/base/content/test/tabs/browser_new_web_tab_in_file_process_pref.js`
* `BrowserTestUtils` API contains useful functions such as ‘open a new tab in the foreground’ or ‘wait for a page load in browser window to complete' `source/testing/mochitest/BrowserTestUtils/BrowserTestUtils.jsm`

### 2:24pm
Somehow, when I use `withNewTab`, while opening an html page with the above code, the browser only shows that we have 2 tabs open. Need to figure out another way to open the page.
There is another property getVisibleTabs on browser, so perhaps I could try that.

### 3:13pm
Realized that withNewTab takes a task and runs it while the tab is loading. I need the task to run after the tab has loaded. Will look into `openNewForegroundTab`

### 4:00pm
Using `openNewForegroundTab` now. Spent the last hour trying to figure out how to pass a message from the newly opened tab to the 'noopener test’ tab, only to realize I don’t need to pass a message because I can simply wait on the condition. Things are finally working!
