---
layout: post
title: Monday, July 16, 2018
category: dailyblog
---
### News
- Over the weekend bugzilla.mozilla.org was shutdown to make for Emoji integration!!! How exciting!

### Generating a patch for a specific commit
https://stackoverflow.com/questions/6658313/generate-a-git-patch-for-a-specific-commit

### Creating shortcuts for mozilla's search
Did you know Firefox has a feature that allows you to right click on the search box of your favorite website and create a shortcut for it? So for example, if I wanted to create a shortcut for `google.com`
`TODO`

### How to check out branches from mozilla-beta and mozilla-esr*
- `git remote add unified hg::https://hg.mozilla.org/mozilla-unified`
  - `TODO` explain the difference
- `git fetch unified bookmarks/beta` or `git fetch unified bookmarks/esr60`
- `git checkout bookmarks/beta` or `git checkout bookmarks/esr60`
- `git pull`
###### What is the difference between release and build branch?
`TODO`

##### How to build things due to modification for one bug and simultaneously work on another bug in the same directory
`TODO`

**Option 1**

If you need to debug your try build and you want to do it on another machine, simply ``

**Option 2**

[`pore`](https://github.com/mystor/pore) a tool made by my mentor.
### Responding to review comments on Async Clipboard APIs bug

See specific comment [here](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1461465#c23).

From https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/DataTransfer/getData, we see that
> The `DataTransfer.getData()` method retrieves drag data (as a DOMString) for the specified type. If the drag operation does not include data, this method returns an empty string.

This does not mention anything about actually retrieving data from the clipboard. But this could be a typo. Still, I'm having a hard time locating where in `DataTransfer::GetData` `DataTransferItem::DataNoSecurityCheck(...)` gets called. I'm going to debug and see at which point the above function gets called.

**Update**

I stepped through `Clipboard::WriteText(...)` and discovered that eventually `DataTransferItem::GetData(...)` indirectly calls `DataTransferItem::DataNoSecurityCheck(...)`, so I had to refactor my code.
### Bug 1474739 - Kill the remaining consumers of XPT shims
