---
layout: post
title: Thursday, July 19, 2018
category: dailyblog
---

### Little TILs
- In switch cases that are located at the end of the code, instead of doing `return` in all cases but last, use `break`. Per https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1461465#c27,
  > That way someone adding other cases or modifying the code is less likely to be surprised by uncoventional code.
- http://ohshitgit.com/
-


### Making sure your patch still applies to mozcentral
- `git fetch central`
- check out your local central branch, for me it was `git checkout mozcentral`
- `git pull` - because git told me my branch could be fast-forwarded
- `git checkout mybranch`
- `git rebase mozcentral`
- `mach build`
- `mach test mytests`
- Done :)


### Moving on to https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1474739
> to get parent-side messagemanager from ContentParent object : https://searchfox.org/mozilla-central/rev/a80651653faa78fa4dfbd238d099c2aad1cec304/toolkit/components/extensions/ExtensionParent.jsm#790
>    - This appears to be the only use of the nsIInterfaceRequestor implementation on ContentParent.

I can see that it only provides `getInterface(...)` method. Is this what the comment is referring to?

>    - It's also a touch odd that the ContentParent object is exposed to JS at all - the nsIObserver nsISupports base was used in order to allow it to be the subject of the "ipc:content-created" observer notification.    

>    - Perhaps provide some other mechanism for getting this object beyond going through the getInterface codepath? We could add another nsIFoo interface which ContentParent implements, or even just add a ChromeUtils method which does the getting for us? I'm not sure what the best approach to take here is.


`mach test browser/components/extensions/test/browser/browser_ext_windows_create_tabId.js`

`mach test devtools/server/tests/mochitest/webextension-helpers.js`

`mach test toolkit/components/extensions/test/xpcshell/head.js`

`mach test toolkit/components/extensions/test/xpcshell/test_ext_cookieBehaviors.js`

`mach test toolkit/components/extensions/test/xpcshell/test_ext_debugging_utils.js`

`mach test toolkit/components/extensions/test/xpcshell/test_ext_startup_perf.js`

`mach test toolkit/mozapps/extensions/test/browser/browser_webext_options_addon_reload.js`
###
